---
title: "Recording with the RX 6600 XT"
author: riza
date: 2023-11-3
categories: [Video Production]
tags: [Windows, AMD]
---

### Short Summary:
Don't buy this graphics card if you intend on recording with Open Broadcast Software or other recording software. There is a very noticeable stutter when recording with high bitrates. Instead please look into a RX 7600 as it supports AV1, does not really cost more, and has slightly better performance to give. If you already have RX 6600 XT like I do and want to get back into video editing or maybe get into it for the first time, you can still use it but you should be aware of the limitations.

## AMD's recording software
This software has some pros and cons

Pros:
- It is user friendly
- You can stream, record, and setup scenes
- Easy connection to media accounts to make sharing clips easier
- Able to stream and record up to 4k
- Storage location can be changed
- Bitrate can be adjusted
- It records stable at high bitrates
- Can use HEVC

Cons:
- It is tied to AMD Software which is also what you use to update your gpu driver, change gpu settings, and is known for having an issue where it causes the gpu driver to crash when waking up from idle.
- You are limited to mp4

### What's the issue?

You'd think that having more pros than cons would be good right? Not really. The cons outweigh the pros and the real issue is found when you try to record at higher bitrates on OBS. There will be very distracting drops in frames throughout the recording that will potentially ruin something that you thought would have looked cool or funny. I've noticed this drop in fps in other youtube recordings made on the same card so I know this is not just my GPU. If you want to just share clips with friends or don't care about having the highest video quality, then AMD's recording software works fine. But it should not be the only viable option!

### What are the options?

>Please note that if you are maxing out your gpu usage then the recordings will still have the drops in frames.

Make do with AMD's software and use that for recording. The video quality will probably be a notch below whatever you could record in OBS with mkv or mov but it will not have those troublesome drops in frames.

Alternatively you could buy a gpu from the RX 7000 series.

Settings for highest quality 1080p recordings without stutters
- Video Bit Rate: 24-40 Mb/s
- Video Encoding Type: HEVC

### Why make this?
I don't want people to buy a RX 6600 XT or 6600 specifically for this use case since it's not a very good option. If I can point at least one person in the right direction or save someone a headache then it's all worth it.
